---
layout: rant.html
title: Migrating From 11ty
date: 2026-05-08
thumbnail: https://jacen-safe.s3.us-west-004.backblazeb2.com/ml7agJY1hv7w.png
---
...to Build Awesome. Apologies for the clickbait, but let me explain my take on the current state of the project formerly known as 11ty and why I eventually decided not to jump ship.
<!-- more -->

Toward the start of May, I found myself on the 11ty documentation site, where I was greeted with an obnoxious popup and a massive banner telling me to back [a Kickstarter for Build Awesome Pro](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/fontawesome/build-awesome-pro). Naturally, none of this made any sense to me, and it made even less sense as I looked through the Kickstarter page and couldn't tell what Build Awesome Pro was even supposed to be.

Apparently I had missed a memo from the beginning of March. Back in 2024, 11ty had been [acquired by Font Awesome](https://www.11ty.dev/blog/eleventy-font-awesome/), the company behind... Font Awesome. This year, they apparently decided to integrate the project further into their ecosystem, including a rebrand to [Build Awesome](https://www.11ty.dev/blog/build-awesome/) and the launch of Build Awesome Pro, a site builder presumably built off of the 11ty codebase.

I'm still not 100% sure what the goal of Build Awesome Pro is compared to every other site builder out there, nor am I sure what it means for the future of the project formerly known as 11ty. What I do know is that I don't appreciate the commercialization of open-source, nor have I built much respect for Font Awesome over the years.

I did start looking for alternatives. In particular, Astro seemed like a good fit. It supports Markdown out of the box and lets me use JavaScript for configuration and customization. There are some downsides; it uses a lot of JSX syntax that I would have to get used to, and I would need to switch to MDX to get some of the functionality that I currently get from my custom Liquid shortcodes, which would make it a bit more difficult to continue writing in Obsidian.

So, rather than spending weekends of my time completely rebuilding the site, I decided to just stick with what I have. There are some limitations 11ty has that maybe could be solved by switching to Astro, but they're fairly low-priority at the moment. As long as Font Awesome keeps letting Zach Leatherman spearhead the project formerly known as 11ty, I think I'm okay with continuing to use it.

Astro still isn't off the table. There are plugins for Obsidian to make it recognize MDX files, and I have been considering moving from Bootstrap to fully custom CSS; a rewrite of the site would be the perfect opportunity for that. With that said, for the time being, I plan on sticking with the project formerly known as 11ty once 4.0 comes out. Never say never, but I think I'll just stick with what I know unless something drastically changes.
